# Feedback from Ballot CH EPR FHIR DSTU5

## General information
The informative STU5 ballot ([IG v5.0.0-ballot](https://fhir.ch/ig/ch-epr-fhir/5.0.0-ballot/index.htmll) ballot was held from August 4 to September 30, 2025. From September 16 to 18, the annual Projectathon took place, where there was the opportunity to test and provide feedback.

During the ballot, [46 issues](https://github.com/ehealthsuisse/ch-epr-fhir/issues?q=is%3Aissue%20label%3A%22DSTU%205%20Ballot%22) were reported. Here is a brief summary of them.

### IUA

- How is identity token supplied? (#402) 
- Why is ch_group needed? (#401) 
- requested_token_type optionality (#400) 
- Authorization Code Grant Type uses authorization_code (#397)
- Use of the word "Scope" (#396) 
- Consider hl7-b2b in place of ch_delegation (#383) 
- No need for mTLS where OAuth2 is used (#382) 
- Support asymmetric authentication (#381)
- Use SMART for authorization (#378)
- Avoid requiring OAuth2 client registration for individuals  (#377)

### PDQm

- Clarify need for CH PDQm Provider Organization (#392) In ehealthsuisse/ch-epr-fhir;· ig-feedback opened 3 weeks ago
- ITI-119 audit: invalid cardinality for entity:patient (#350)


### PIXm

- ITI-119 audit: invalid cardinality for entity:patient (#350)

### MHD

- Do not prohibit authorOrg (#403)
- Usage of ADR in case of paging (#399)
- Document Consumer page count request limit (#391)
- Bind DocumentReference.securityLabel to http://hl7.org/fhir/ValueSet/security-labels (#386)
- Allow multiple values in designationType (#385)
- Do not require meta.profile (#384)
- MHD Provide Document Bundle for MedicationCard JSON representation (#364)
- MHD Provide Document Bundle for MedicationCard (#362)
- Bundle profile for updating multiple documents (#361)
- Missing additional bindings on DocumentReference (#354)
- Bundle profile for CH:MHD-1 (#351)
- Relax requirement on the DocumentReference.author (#347)

### mCSD

- cardinality of Organization.name and Organization.type (#387)
- ITI-130 comes from mCSD not IUA (#376)
- Find Matching Care Services [ITI-90] (#375)
- Assign a profile to the mCSD feed transaction Bundle (#352)
- Missing guidance on how to map Assistants (#349)
- Update to Mobile Care Services Discovery (mCSD) to Release 4.0.0 (#346)

### CH PPQ

- Usage of ADR in case of paging (#399)
- Consider IHE PCF (#388)
- Incomplete description of PPQ template 301 (#368)

### CH ATC

- When will group entry audit event be used? (#404)
- ATC_LOG_READ is duplicative of ITI-81 (#390)
- ATC_DOC_* audit events duplicate MHD events (#389) 
- PolicyAuditEvent: unclear mapping of entity:Resource (#373)
- Add a TraceContext entity to ATC AuditEvent examples (#371)
- CH EPR FHIR AuditEvent (#345)
- On ITI-81 transaction description in Volume 2 (#322)

### General

- Annex 8 (#395)
- EPR architecture questions (#394)
- Trace Context (#393)
- Clarify the meaning of "Actor" and "Options" (#379)
- Document Bulk Download and Upload (#374) 
- limiting the number of ITI-90 AuditEvents (#363)


## Voting

Since this is a comment only ballot there is no formal voting.

However there where two no-votes submitted with the following comments.

1. There are open issues which should be addressed, in particular:

- https://github.com/ehealthsuisse/ch-epr-fhir/issues/347
- https://github.com/ehealthsuisse/ch-epr-fhir/issues/279
- https://github.com/ehealthsuisse/ch-epr-fhir/issues/284
- https://github.com/ehealthsuisse/ch-epr-fhir/issues/351
- https://github.com/ehealthsuisse/ch-epr-fhir/issues/354
- https://github.com/ehealthsuisse/ch-epr-fhir/issues/361"

2. Issues to be fixed  #375-379, 381-398, 400-404

and an additional general comment in german:

"Der IG stellt eine grosse Baustelle dar und ist vom stabilen/normativen Zustand weit entfernt.  Es sind weitere technischen Diskussionen und Anpassungen nötig.  Meine Ja-Antwort ist als ""ja, lasst uns den aktuellen Zwischenstand als informativ veröffentlichen und dann weiter daran arbeiten"" zu interpretieren. https://github.com/hl7ch/ch-term/issues/123"

