This section corresponds to transaction [CH:MHD-1]. Transaction [CH:MHD-1] is used by the Document Source and Document Responder Actors. 

### Scope

The Update Document Metadata [CH:MHD-1] transaction is used to update document metadata from the Document Consumer to the Document Responder.

### Actor Roles

**Actor:** Document Source   
**Role:** Prepares and issues an update to a DocumentReference resource   
**Actor:** Document Responder    
**Role:** Accepts requests for updates to a DocumentReference resource    

### Referenced Standards

1. [Mobile access to Health Documents (MHD), Rev. 4.2.3 – Trial-Implementation, 2025-10-31](https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/MHD/index.html) 
2. This MHD Profile is based on Release 4 of the [HL7® FHIR®](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/index.html) standard.

### Messages

<div>{% include MHD_ActorDiagram_CH-1.svg %}</div>

#### Update Document Metadata Request Message

The Update Document Metadata Request Message provides the ability to submit updated attributes for DocumentReference resources.

##### Trigger Events

The Update Document Metadata Request Message is triggered when a Document Source needs to transmit updated DocumentReference metadata.

##### Message Semantics

A Document Source initiates a FHIR request using Update as defined at http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#update on DocumentReference Resources.
A Document Source initiates a FHIR request using Update as defined at [http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#update](http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#update) on DocumentReference Resources, with a standalone HTTP request or a [transaction](https://hl7.org/fhir/R4/http.html#transaction).



A Document Source shall send a request for either the JSON or the XML format as defined in FHIR. A Document Responder shall support the JSON and the XML format.

The Document Source shall be capable of accepting elements specified in profile [CH MHD DocumentReference Comprehensive](StructureDefinition-ch-mhd-documentreference-comprehensive.html).
The DocumentReference elements which are allowed to be updated are defined in Annex 5.1 1.12. The [Mappings tab](StructureDefinition-ch-mhd-documentreference-comprehensive-mappings.html#mappings-for-xds-metadata-equivalent-http-ihe-netxds), indicates the mapping between DocumentReference elements and the XDS elements defined in Annex 5.1 1.12.

##### Example

```http
PUT [base]/DocumentReference/DocRefPdf HTTP/1.1
Accept: application/fhir+json
traceparent: 00-0af7651916cd43dd8448eb211c80319c-b7ad6b7169203331-00

```
{% fragment DocumentReference/DocRefPdf JSON %}



##### Expected Actions

The Document Responder shall provide a [CapabilityStatement](CapabilityStatement-CH.MHD.DocumentResponder.html) with the capabilities interaction and indicate that update is available on the DocumentReference.

The Document Responder shall process the Update Document Metadata Request message and return the updated DocumentReference.

Any error that occurs during the processing of the Update Document Metadata Request message shall cause the entire transaction to fail and 
no change made to the existing DocumentReference. The Document Responder shall return the status and any error codes incurred during the processing of
the request in its response message. 

1. Verify the submitted and existing DocumentReference have the same values for the identifiers. If these values are not identical, an OperationOutcome with the error code [XDSMetadataIdentifierError](OperationOutcome-MhdOperationOutcomeErrorXdsMetadataIdentifier.html) should be returned.
2. Verify the submitted and existing DocumentReference reference the same Patient. If these values are not identical, an OperationOutcome with the error code [XDSPatientIDReconciliationError](OperationOutcome-MhdOperationOutcomeErrorXDSPatientIDReconciliationError.html) should be returned.
3. Check the submitted DocumentReference and determine if it contains only changes to modifiable attributes, as described in Annex 5.1 1.12. If not, an OperationOutcome with the error code [UnmodifiableMetadataError](OperationOutcome-MhdOperationOutcomeErrorUnmodifiableMetadataError.html) should be returned.

###### Federated Cross Community Access Option

{% include iti-mhd-fxca-update.html %}

 With the Federated Cross Community Access option the Document Responder SHALL identify if a document metadata update targets another community. If this is the case, it SHALL forward the request to the target community, otherwise the request can be handled in the own community. If the remote community cannot be reached an error SHALL be generated by the Document Responder and the Document Source SHALL process this error.

##### Response Message
See http://hl7.org/fhir/http.html#update for response.


### Security Consideration

The transaction SHALL be secured by Transport Layer Security (TLS) encryption and server authentication with
server certificates. Transactions across communities SHALL use mTLS.

The transaction SHALL use client authentication and authorization using one of the following strategies:
1. Use an extended access token defined in [IUA](iti-71.html) conveyed as defined in the [Incorporate Access Token [ITI-72]](https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/IUA/index.html#372-incorporate-access-token-iti-72) transaction.
2. or, use mutual authentication (mTLS) on the transport layer in combination with a XUA token for authorization from the Get X-User Assertion transaction (Annex 5.1 1.6.4.2). The XUA token SHALL be conveyed as defined in the [Incorporate Access Token [ITI-72]](https://profiles.ihe.net/ITI/IUA/index.html#372-incorporate-access-token-iti-72) transaction.

Document Responders SHALL be grouped with the Authorization Decision Consumer actor of the CH:ADR profile
defined in Extension 2.1 to Annex 5 of the ordinances and perform an Authorization Decision Request [CH:ADR] for
every update document metadata [CH:MHD-1] request in the own community.

The actors SHALL support the _traceparent_ header handling, as defined in [Appendix: Trace Context](tracecontext.html).

#### Security Audit Considerations

##### Document Source Audit

The **Document Source** SHALL record an audit event according to
[CH Audit Event for [CH:MHD-1] Document Source](StructureDefinition-ch-mhd-updatedocumentmetadata-audit-source.html)
([example](AuditEvent-ChAuditEventChMhd1SourceExample.html)).

##### Document Responder Audit

The **Document Responder** SHALL record an audit event according to
[CH Audit Event for [CH:MHD-1] Document Responder](StructureDefinition-ch-mhd-updatedocumentmetadata-audit-responder.html)
([example](AuditEvent-ChAuditEventChMhd1ResponderExample.html)).

For a [transaction](StructureDefinition-ch-mhd-1-updatedocumentmetadatatransactionrequest.html) instead of a direct PUT interaction, the actors SHALL also be able to record audit events for each Update Document Metadata Request Message in the Bundle.